In this blog, I am talking about my group presentation in the course Fundamental Of Management(mg-223).
We have to make groups and every group consist five members and We are required to take a organizational structure of any organization by taking hand to hand information or collect information from internet about your selected organization and make a good effort and present in a class.

Our group have selected organizational structure of BOP(Bank Of Punjab).We have arrange meeting with manager of BOP of hayatabad phase-1 branch and grap information about their organization and make notes of that.And then we have divided Presentation in five parts and every group member select their part in presentation accordingly to their choice.Ali Husnain(group-member) selected intro and Kashif Ali(group-member) selected planning part of presentation.Sarim Ali(group-member) and Hassan Shabir cheema(gruop-member) selected leading and controlling part of presentation and I have selected the organizing.And now we are ready for presentation.


Presentation:

Intro:
The Bank of Punjab (BOP) head quartered in BOP tower,  Main Boulevard , Gulberg, Lahore is one of the prominent financial institution of the country with PACRA(Pakistan Credit Rating Agency Limited).
Bank Of Punjab To be a customer focused bank with service excellence.

Awards and Rewards.

Excellence Award by the Central Board of Revenue
3rd Kissan Time Awards
Best Corporate Report Award
16th Bolan Excellence Award
Achievement Award


Planning:

The process of  making plans to achieve any goal.Goal is an idea of the future that a person of group of person envisions, plans and commits to achieve (profit).Planning consist of following factors:
1- What to achieve
2- How to achieve
3- Resource allocation
These factor essential for planning.

This is how BOP plans to achieve their goal.The goal of BOP is to increase in profit.

1- Motivate people

2- Ensure security

3- Insurance policies

4- Quality services

5- Online banking

5- Other facilities


Organizing:

Organizing involves developing an organizational structure and allocating human resource to  ensure the accomplishment of objectives.Organizational structure also defines the duties and responsibilities of human capital.

This is the organizational structure of BOP.

CRO(Customer Representative Officer):
A bank customer service representative is someone whose role is to provide information regrading to the bank's product and services to their customers.And also handles responsibilities of handling any inquiries and resolving customer complaints.

RO(Remittance Officer):
In general remittance is the act of sending money to pay for something.Remittance is a transfer of money by a foreign workers to an individual in their country.RO deal every aspect of remittance.

CO(Cash Officer)
CO receive payment by cash, cheque, credit cards and vounchers etc.Cash Office Associates are in charge with managing cash transactions in a company. Essential job duties seen on a Cash Office Associate resume sample are executing transactions, making cash deposits, delivering reports to managers, developing more effective methods of accounting for company cash, and making sure each transaction has been put into the daily log.

CM(Cash Manager)
CM responsible for all the aspect of cash management function, effective collection of revenues and payment of obligations.It also includes daily cash administration, management of current account and bank relation.

RM(Relation Manager)
Relation Manager would deal with individual customers and advice them on various banking and financial products and services offered by bank.

SM(Sales Manager)
Sales Manager manages the achieving growth and hiting sales target by successfully managing the sales team.

RO(Responsible Officer)
A bank compliance officer researches, implements, and manages the areas of banking regulations and laws, banking policies and procedures, consumer protection, and public interest laws. They may work closely with the Chief Operating Officer (COO) in overseeing compliance procedures and might also advise on risk management.

RM(Relation Manager)
Relation Manager would deal with individual customers and advice them on various banking and financial products and services offered by bank.


Leading:
Leaders are needed for boosting morale, creating enthusiasm and moving the team mentally to the "next level." Leaders open office meetings with inspiring stories while managers give product details and operational updates.
Leaders and managers of organizations have different viewpoints on how a company runs. According to an article by "Entrepreneur" magazine, leaders are the heart of a business while managers are the brains. Leaders have a people-oriented viewpoints while managers have a business-based thought process. Managers view work in terms of goals like, "We must produce 50 widgets by Friday." A leader's viewpoint provides the organization direction that takes the workers to the goal of producing 50 widgets by Friday.
Many successful businessmen are a combination of both manager and leader. They step in with clear direction and practical steps as a manager. When they put on their leadership hat, they give shape to the future and promote a can-do attitude. If possible, the best choice is to find a leader who has the capability of fulfilling a manager role and who can tell when each role is needed. If your organization has a clear plan, you need a manager. If the company is too focused on daily operations and has lost sight of the dream, the best choice is a leader.


Controlling:
A process of monitoring, comparing, correcting performance and taking action to ensure desired results.
Organizational control includes developing rules, guidelines, procedures, limits or other protocols for directing the work and processes of employees and departments. These controls can include setting rules or procedures for financial transactions, employee behavior and specific practices for all or individual departments. A control can depend on an individual employee following the guideline, or require multiple parties to agree on an action.